# SLiM parameter run log


### 2021 - July - 1 (UPDATE Aug 3rd)

**UPDATE - Aug. 3rd** : The script finished running after ~13 days (July 8 - July 21 23:19). It appears to have tried to run the first 50 simulations, but only completed 43 to the point of creating the `.recode2.vcf.gz` file. It appears that a time limit error occured even though it was being run on the lotterhos partiion (`EX: 2021-07-22T08:28:10 DUE TO TIME LIMIT`). May need to reach out to RC to see if we can either extend run time limits on our own partition or think of some other sort of work around.  

**UPDATE - July 8th** : After letting this run for a couple of days using `100G` and up to `24H` per sim on the `short` partition it still looks like some of the simulations are still reaching the time limit before completing. To avoid this issue I am starting to run the sims on `lotterhos` which has no time limit and with less resources (so there are at least some for others to use). My plan is to run 10 simulations simultaneously using 30G of ram. (300G total) and see how long it takes to complete the first 50 simulations.

For this run I am outputting these simulations in a folder called `MVP-NonClinalAF/sim_output_150_V2` so I don't rewrite files from the previous attempt.

**Side Note**: I realized there is a limit on the number of resources that can be requested by a single user (outside `lotterhos`), so we may need to be mindful of who is initiates the simulations going forward.

**UPDATE - July 1st** : I ran this on the `short` discovery partition without specifying a timelimit and only using 30G of ram per simulation. As a result, it looks like many of the simulations timed out before finishing. I revised the shell script by increasing the ram (1ooG per sim) and setting an explicit time limit (23 hours) per simulation and limiting the number of simulations running simultaneously to 5. This hopefully will be sufficient for the simulations to complete without timing out. However, it does mean that running all the sims will take substantially longer.

Description: Ran 150 slim simulations (first 150 rows of [parameter list](https://github.com/ModelValidationProgram/MVP-NonClinalAF/blob/alan/src/0b-final_params.txt)). With `N=1000` for pyslim.

**Files**

* [parameter list](https://github.com/ModelValidationProgram/MVP-NonClinalAF/blob/alan/src/0b-final_params.txt)
* [shell script](https://github.com/ModelValidationProgram/MVP-NonClinalAF/blob/alan/src/0b-final_params.txt)

**Outputs folder**

*`MVP-NonClinalAF/sim_output_150`

**Shell script specifics**

Slurm details

```
#SBATCH --job-name=SlimTest
#SBATCH --mem=30G
#SBATCH --mail-user=downey-wall.a@northeastern.edu
#SBATCH --mail-type=FAIL
#SBATCH --partition=short
#SBATCH --nodes=1
#SBATCH --array=2-151%150
#SBATCH --output=/work/lotterhos/MVP-NonClinalAF/slurm_log/SlimTest_%j.out
#SBATCH --error=/work/lotterhos/MVP-NonClinalAF/slurm_log/SlimTest_%j.err
```
User details
```
# Local working path (this should navigate to the MVP repo)
mypath="/work/lotterhos/MVP-NonClinalAF"
cd ${mypath}
# Folder within MVP where you want are your output files
outpath="sim_output_150"
mkdir -p ${outpath} # make outpath directory if it doesn't exist

# Parameter file
params="src/0b-final_params.txt"

#### User variables ####
# N for pyslim
POP=1000
# Minimum allele freq. for vcftools
MAF=0.01
```
